Menu Manager Manual: written for version 1.12 
--------------------------------------------------
Author: Steven Levin

Table of Contents:
-----------------------
I. Getting Started
II. Listing Menus
III. Creating New Menus
IV. Image Manager
V. Editing Menus:
 A. Add menu item 
 B. Basic edit
 C. Advanced edit
 D. Settings
 E. Add module default


I. Getting Started
-----------------------
1. You must navigate to the adminisrative side menu manager module.
2. The menu manager can be found under the Site Content tab of your controlpanel.
3. The link says Menu Manager and may have an icon that looks like an open menu.

II. Listing Menus
-----------------------
1. When you first startup the module what you see is the menu manger admin menu followed by a list of menus if there are 
any in the database.  If there are no menus you should see a message that says: There are no menus in the database at this 
time.  
2. The admin menu at the top allows you to list menus(II.), create menus(III.), and go to the image manager(IV.).  This
menu will follow you around and be available on most of the administrative screens. At any point you can click the List 
Menus link and get back to this page.
3. Each menu in the list can be edited, delete, and (activated / deactivated).
  + Editing the menu will take you to part V. of the manual which will be discussed later.
  + Deleting the menu will take you to a Yes/No confirmation to make sure you want to delete the menu (make sure this is what 
    you want to do and that you have selected the correct menu).  Yes will remove the menu and all of its links from the
    database. No will do nothing and your menu will be spared.
  + Activating/Deactivating the menu will toggle it between being viewable by the public and not.

III. Creating New Menus
----------------------------
1. Click on the Create Menu link in the admin menu at the top of the page, this will take you to the menu creation page.
2. The menu creating page allows you to configure all of the settings for your new menu. The options you see here can be
changed later via the menu settings when you are editing your menu(V.D.)
3. Settings for the most part can be left at their default values and will function the way most expect.  Most of the
options are for those who would like to really configure their menu.
  + Menu Title: The text title that will show up at the top of the menu. You should always provide a title for your menu,
    altough it is not a required field, so you can distinguish it from other menus.
  + Menu Spacer: This value is a numeric value which represents the number of extra spaces the menu will add automatically
    to each nested level of the menu.  The menu will always start with 0 space at the first level of the menu. (ie. a value 
    of 2 for the menu spacer will put 2 spaces on the first nest of the menu and 4 spaces for the second nest)
  + Template: The template for the menu is just there to give the ability for someone to highly configure their menu. For
    most this option will just stay at default unless you really know what you are doing.  If you would like more
    information on templating please see the TEMPLATE.txt doc in the docs directory for the Menu Manager.  The image map
    checkbox is there for furthur templating configuration.
  + Allow View: The allow view option allows you to choose which modules must be active in order for the menu appear.
    You can select one module or multiple modules.  The default is to select all of the modules so if none are selected then
    the menu will be visable for all of the modules currently installed.  If a module is installed after the menu is created,
    and you want the menu to show up for the module, you will have to come and select it under the menu settings.
  + Default Theme Variable: This allows you to choose where the menu will defaultly show up on the page after it is created. 
    This is the only time you can set this option within the menu manager.  After it is set it can be changed via the layout
    modules box move option.  The values for this option are pretty self-explanitory, it will show up exactly where it says.
  + Menu Indent: The menu indent can be one of two things a character or an image. If the radio button is selected for a
    character then the menu manager will use the character selected from the dropdown box before every link in the menu. Also
    if an activity color is set for that character then the character will turn that color when the link it shows up before
    is the link that was just clicked.  If the radio button is selected for an image then the images choosen will show up
    before each link. Depending on the activity of the link.  The images found in the dropbox here can be uploaded via the
    image manager section of the module(IV.).

IV. Image Manager
----------------------
1. The image manager just gives you a web-based interface to upload images you want to use as an indent item at that is all.
If you do not plan on using an image for your indent item then you will not need to use the image manager.
2. Current images can also be removed from the system via this page by just selecting the image and clicking delete.

V. Editing Menus
---------------------
1. To edit a menu you must list all of the current menus as described before and click the edit button next to the menu you are 
wishing to edit.
2. Now you will see a list of all the current links in the menu, if there are no links in the menu you will get a message that
says: No items for this menu.

  A. Adding menu items
  -------------------------
  1. A menu item may be added to the menu by clicking on the Add Menu Item button at the bottom of the page.
  2. After you click this you will see a screen which will give you three options.
    + Title: The text representation of the link that will be placed in the menu. This field is required.
    + URL: The url of the link you are wanting to add.  If pagemaster pages are available they will show up here in a dropdown box
      to be selected.  You can either fill out the url or pick a pagemaster page.  When a pagemaster page is chosen then the url
      field is populating accordingly so it does not need to be filled out.  In this case the user submitted url will be ignored.
    + Display: This option allows you define how the link will act and display on your site.
      - Internal: The page is internal to the site and the menu will expand at that point where the menu is clicked.
      - External: The page is external which means it is not located within your site(ie. links to another site) this will not
        detect your position in the menu.
      - New Window: This option will cause the link to open in a new browser window.
  3. Now select where on the menu you would like the menu item to go.  The very top radiobutton means you want the link to be a 
  top level link (ie. not nested under another link).  If any other radiobutton listed next to another menu item is selected that
  means you want the link you are adding to be nested under the item selected.  Finally if this is the first link you are adding to
  the menu then it can only be a top-level link.

  B. Basic Edit
  ------------------
  1. This is the first mode you will see when editing your menu. At any time you can switch to the advanced edit mode(C.) by clicking
  the Turn On Advanced Edit button.  The basic edit allows you to edit the textual representation of the link, change the activity of 
  the link, change the order the link shows up in the menu, and delete menu items.
  2. To update the text, change the value in the textfield of the link you want to edit and check the box next to the link, now click
  the Update Menu Items button and you are done.
  3. To toggle the activity of a menu item check the box next to the item you want to change and then click the Activate/Deactivate
  button.
  4. To change the order of a menu item just click the up or down link next to the item you want to move.  Only items that are on the
  same level (in the same nest) can be order.  An item can not be moved to another nest at this point in time.  This option is in the
  plan for future versions.
  5. To delete an item check the box next to it and then click the delete button.  A confirmation will then appear making sure you are
  deleting the links you want.  If you click yes that link will be deleted along with ALL of the links nested under it.
  6. All these options can be done in mass by selecting more than one item at a time.

  C. Advanced Edit
  ---------------------
  1. The advanced edit mode will also allow you to edit the textual representation of the link and delete a link.  It will also allow 
  you to edit the url for the link, and the display method as described earlier.
  2. To update the text or the url, edit the textfield containing the information, check the box next to the item and click the Update
  Menu Items button.  If you select a pagemaster page then you do not need to edit the url field, the menu will take care of that for 
  you.
  3. To update the display select the display you want then check the box next to the item and click the Update Menu Items button.
  4. Once again all of these actions can be done in mass by selecting more than one at a time.
  
  D. Settings
  ----------------
  1. The settingss button will take you to the settings for your menu.  These are all the same options seen before when creating
  a menu.
  2. Click save at the bottom to update any changes you may make on this page.

  E. Add Module Default
  --------------------------
  1. The ability to add module defaults is something a lot of folks asked for.  With this you can add a link to a specific modules user
  side to the menu.
  2. After clicking this button, then select the module you want to add a link to the menu for and then select the position you would
  like to see the link at and click Add Menu Item.  Your are done.

Thanks for checking out the Menu Manager Manual