Block Maker Manual: Written for version 1.0 
--------------------------------------------------
Author: Steven Levin 
Email: steven at tux dot appstate dot edu

Table of Contents
------------------------
I. Getting Started
II. Listing Blocks
III. Create A New Block
VI. Editing Blocks


I. Getting Started
-------------------------
1. Navigate to the administrative side of the Block Maker.
2. The Block Maker can be found under the Site Content Tab of your Control Panel.
3. The link for it says Block Maker and has an icon of a cursor hovering over a
   series of blocks.
4. Blocks created by blockmaker are to be used for very small amounts of basic 
   content on your site.  If the content is going to be longer than just a few
   sentences then consider making a pagemaster page.

II. Listing Block
-------------------------
1. The first time you enter the Block Maker module you see a listing of all the
   blocks which are currently in the database.
2. You can always return to this list from anywhere in the module by clicking
   the list blocks link at the top of the page.
3. The listing of the blocks provides you with the ability to edit, delete, and
   activate/deactivate blocks.
   + Edit will take you to edit the block you have choosen.  Editing blocks is
     explained in section (IV) of this document.
   + Deleting a block will take you to a Yes/No confirmation to make sure you
     want to delete the block selected.  Take this time to make sure you have
     selected the correct block and this is what you want to do.  There is no
     recovery after you click Yes.  Click No to cancel the deletion process.
   + Activating/Deactivating blocks toggles whether or not the block is publically
     viewable.

III. Create A New Block
-----------------------------
1. Creating a new block is quite easy.  
2. Click the Create A New Block link at the top of the page and that will take you
   to the form you need to fill out.  If at anytime you wish to cancel what you
   are doing just click the Back to Main link at the top of the page.
3. None of the fields: title, content, or footer are required but if you don't put
   any content in the block will no show up.
4. The title field is used as just that, a title.  It also represents the block in 
   the list of blocks.
5. The content field is where most of your content will go.  There is a small wysiwyg
   provided here for those will javascript enabled.  The wysiwyg gives you the ability
   to enter several different html tags into your content.
6. The footer field is rarely used and must be supported by the boxstyle the block is
   using.  This can just generally be ignored.
7. The default theme variable is used for the placement of the block on your site.
   This is not set in stone and can be moved later via the layout modules box move.
   The choices in this dopbox explain exactly where on the site the block will
   defaulty be placed.
8. The allow view option gives you the abilty to select which modules must be active
   in order for the block to appear.  For instance you can select pagemaster and the
   block will only be visable when a pagemaster page is being viewed.  Most of the time
   you will select all the modules so the block can always be seen.  If none are
   selected and the block is saved then they will all be selected by default.
9. When you are done click the Save Block button and you will be returned to the listing
   of blocks.
10. Now you will need to activate the block in order to make it publically viewable.

IV. Editing blocks
-------------------------
1. Editing a block is much like creating a new block except all of the fields are
   pre-populated with the data that was entered when creating this block.  If at anytime 
   you wish to cancel what you are doing just click the Back to Main link at the top of 
   the page.
2. Now you can modify the content in the block and change its allow view options.  The
   only thing you can't change here now is the theme variable you chose when creating a
   block.  This has to now be modified by the layout module's box move.
3. When you are done editing the block click the save block button and the block will
   be saved to the database and return you to the list of blocks.
4. Make sure the changes you made are correct because they will go live as soon as you
   save the block. Unless you deactivate it before you begin to edit.

Thanks for checking out the Block Maker module
Enjoy!